None
 As marginal cost improves, that will prod US to produce more and we are suspecting that like we have seen in the years gone by, the US will keep a lead on real rallies in oil price over the course of this year, says, Resource Analyst,It was a surprise production cut suggesting that they take one million barrels of oil off the market from February and that is obviously to make up for the increases in production of 65,000 barrels in February and another 65,000 barrels in March. Of course, the million barrels is significantly higher than that and we would expect to see the market tighten up on that news and that is precisely what has happened. We have to wait and see what actually happens when we start reading the real numbers.We expect to see the oil price rally this year. We expected it to close between $50-$60 and from that perspective, we are looking for a modest rally in oil prices from where it is now. We expect to see pressure coming from the US where domestic production has fallen to about 11 million barrels and that is significantly lower than its potential. As marginal cost improves, that will prod US to produce more and we are suspecting that like we have seen in the years gone by, the US will keep a lead on real rallies in oil price over the course of this year.Yes. We have been very bullish on gold this year because we have to look at the implied matrix and we have seen a significant surge in the US money supply and that will stimulate inflation further down the track. It does seem to be a step sideways between when we see surges in money supply in the US and the arrival of inflation, and that is going to be very positive for gold.Also as more US dollars are being put into circulation, that raises the price of gold as there is an inverse relationship between the two.The final factor is of course the stimulatory programmes which are leading to increased debt. The US economy is becoming more and more leveraged and that is also going to weaken the US dollar. If the US dollar weakens, it is going to be very good for gold and drive the gold prices much higher over the course of 2021.David Lennox: Along with a lot of other assets, there is going to be an inflationary impact on the crypto currencies as well.