None
 Transcript

Hi there, this is ETMarkets’ Investors Guide, a show about asset classes, market trends and investment opportunities. This is Ami Shah.



Calendar 2020 was an eventful one in many ways: disruptive in general, unstoppable for markets!



While the Covid-19 pandemic left the humanity, in general, and economies, in particular, shaken and shattered; financial markets had a dream run -- equities boomed, commodities revived and asset classes all across got inflated.



The year also saw millions of first-time investors flock to equities, and get the first taste of their investing success. And in businesses, the big one got bigger, while the smaller ones struggled and some perished.



As year draws to a close, it's time to reflect on the lessons the year taught us, be it in investing or life in general. Swarup Mohanty, CEO, Mirae Asset Investment Managers, shares his experience and insights in our Special Podcast this weekend. LISTEN IN!



Welcome to the show, Mr Mohanty!



What are the key takeaways from 2020?



1) The year was truly an exceptional one, to start with for all the wrong reasons. That said, the market rebounded like never before, and we are at record highs. As an asset manager, what were your key takeaways from the year 2020?



2) This year also saw riskier asset class such as equities, along with risk-averse asset class gold scaling new highs. What explains this dichotomy, and do you think this trend is here to stay until Covid-19 is largely out of our lives?



3) If one had to make fresh investments of Rs 10,00,000 at this point of time, considering where we are in terms of prices and the pandemic. What would be the optimal mix between asset classes/ sectors within equities?



4) What is the one trend that will dictate the investment world in 2021?



5) On the personal and professional front, what were some things that Covid-19 changed permanently for you?



Thank you Mr Mohanty, that was indeed an insightful conversation.



That’s it in this week’s edition of the special weekend podcast. Do come back next Saturday for this weekly special. You can check out our regular podcasts on the equity market twice every week day.