None
 Every investor in Gold Circuit Electronics Ltd. ( ) should be aware of the most powerful shareholder groups. Generally speaking, as a company grows, institutions will increase their ownership. Conversely, insiders often decrease their ownership over time. Warren Buffett said that he likes "a business with enduring competitive advantages that is run by able and owner-oriented people." So it's nice to see some insider ownership, because it may suggest that management is owner-oriented.

With a market capitalization of NT$31b, Gold Circuit Electronics is a decent size, so it is probably on the radar of institutional investors. Taking a look at our data on the ownership groups (below), it seems that institutions own shares in the company. Let's take a closer look to see what the different types of shareholders can tell us about Gold Circuit Electronics.

TSEC:2368 Ownership Breakdown January 18th 2021

What Does The Institutional Ownership Tell Us About Gold Circuit Electronics?

Many institutions measure their performance against an index that approximates the local market. So they usually pay more attention to companies that are included in major indices.

As you can see, institutional investors have a fair amount of stake in Gold Circuit Electronics. This implies the analysts working for those institutions have looked at the stock and they like it. But just like anyone else, they could be wrong. When multiple institutions own a stock, there's always a risk that they are in a 'crowded trade'. When such a trade goes wrong, multiple parties may compete to sell stock fast. This risk is higher in a company without a history of growth. You can see Gold Circuit Electronics' historic earnings and revenue below, but keep in mind there's always more to the story.

TSEC:2368 Earnings and Revenue Growth January 18th 2021

Hedge funds don't have many shares in Gold Circuit Electronics. Our data shows that Chang-Ji Yang is the largest shareholder with 26% of shares outstanding. In comparison, the second and third largest shareholders hold about 3.5% and 2.3% of the stock.

On studying our ownership data, we found that 25 of the top shareholders collectively own less than 50% of the share register, implying that no single individual has a majority interest.

Researching institutional ownership is a good way to gauge and filter a stock's expected performance. The same can be achieved by studying analyst sentiments. Quite a few analysts cover the stock, so you could look into forecast growth quite easily.

Insider Ownership Of Gold Circuit Electronics

The definition of company insiders can be subjective and does vary between jurisdictions. Our data reflects individual insiders, capturing board members at the very least. Management ultimately answers to the board. However, it is not uncommon for managers to be executive board members, especially if they are a founder or the CEO.

I generally consider insider ownership to be a good thing. However, on some occasions it makes it more difficult for other shareholders to hold the board accountable for decisions.

It seems insiders own a significant proportion of Gold Circuit Electronics Ltd.. It has a market capitalization of just NT$31b, and insiders have NT$9.8b worth of shares in their own names. That's quite significant. It is good to see this level of investment. You can

General Public Ownership

The general public, who are mostly retail investors, collectively hold 56% of Gold Circuit Electronics shares. With this size of ownership, retail investors can collectively play a role in decisions that affect shareholder returns, such as dividend policies and the appointment of directors. They can also exercise the power to decline an acquisition or merger that may not improve profitability.

Private Company Ownership

We can see that Private Companies own 3.3%, of the shares on issue. Private companies may be related parties. Sometimes insiders have an interest in a public company through a holding in a private company, rather than in their own capacity as an individual. While it's hard to draw any broad stroke conclusions, it is worth noting as an area for further research.

Next Steps:

While it is well worth considering the different groups that own a company, there are other factors that are even more important. For instance, we've identified that you should be aware of.

If you would prefer discover what analysts are predicting in terms of future growth, do not miss this free .

NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the last twelve months, which refer to the 12-month period ending on the last date of the month the financial statement is dated. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures.

Promoted

If you decide to trade Gold Circuit Electronics, use the lowest-cost* platform that is rated #1 Overall by Barron’s, . Trade stocks, options, futures, forex, bonds and funds on 135 markets, all from a single integrated account.

This article by Simply Wall St is general in nature. It does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell any stock, and does not take account of your objectives, or your financial situation. We aim to bring you long-term focused analysis driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis may not factor in the latest price-sensitive company announcements or qualitative material. Simply Wall St has no position in any stocks mentioned.

*Interactive Brokers Rated Lowest Cost Broker by StockBrokers.com Annual Online Review 2020



Have feedback on this article? Concerned about the content? with us directly. Alternatively, email editorial-team (at) simplywallst.com.