2020-12-26 00:00:00
 David Hunter, the chief macro strategist at Contrarian Macro Advisors and a 47-year market veteran, says a 75% sell-off is in store for stocks in early 2021 following a final "melt-up."

He predicts an economic bust, and that subsequent responses from central banks would lead to mass inflation.

Hunter also says gold will surge to $10,000 and silver to $300.

Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.

By many indications, and according to a majority on Wall Street, equity markets appear ripe for gains heading into the new year.

David Hunter doesn't disagree with that. He just doesn't believe the gains will last long.

Hunter, the chief macro strategist at Contrarian Macro Advisors and 47-year market veteran, says the S&P 500 will continue to rise to 4,500 into early 2021, but will turn sour shortly thereafter in what will be the beginning of a market crash of "biblical" proportions — 75% from current S&P 500 levels, or 80% from 4,500.

"We're in the final stage of an equity melt-up," Hunter said to Crux Investor's Matthew Gordon during a video discussion posted on December 10. "I've been on the record many times saying that when this top hits — and I think that's in the next few months — it will be a high water mark that will probably stand for decades."

"I don't see this ending well," he continued. "2021, probably not initially, not the first quarter, but I think as you go through the year, you're going to see a global bust, the likes of which will be worse than anything we've experienced in the post WW2 era."

Hunter said the crash will be the end of a 38-year secular bull market and an extension of the economic bust that began in March this year.

The catalysts for a potential sell-off and bust include things like a lack of stimulus, global debt buildup, or a misstep from central-banks, Hunter said earlier this year.

He said this downturn would lead to a period of significant deflation, which would then trigger an enormous policy response from central banks, with the Federal Reserve increasing the money supply to more than $20 trillion from current levels of about $7 trillion.

This would then lead to very high inflation, Hunter said, which would cause interest rates to rise and equity valuations to fall.

"The reason I call this a secular bull market that started in 1982 is because that's when PE multiples began to expand from single digits to what's now over 20," he said.

"You're going to see the reverse of that in the next decade. You're going to see interest rates going from zero to 10 or zero to 15 and the multiples going from 20-something back down to single digits."

Hunter's optimistic side

But Hunter's views aren't all necessarily pessimistic. He said he sees mammoth upside in both gold and silver if equity markets tank, as investors will pile into the precious metals amid inflation.

He predicts gold will surge to at least $10,000, and silver to at least $300, representing enormous increases of 431% and 1,056% respectively from Thursday's levels.

"I think gold and silver will be the number one assets to own. I think gold will go to $10,000-plus, silver to $300-plus, and I don't know what those pluses are," Hunter said. "Once you get into the parabolics, who knows, you could go to $10,000 and then double again in the next two years after that."

Hunter also said he expects a quick economic and equity market bounce backs, providing investors with opportunities.

He said he sees an economic bust — what he says is a downturn as bad as a depression, but which happens at the same speed as a recession — to last no more than 12 months. An even quicker recovery in stocks is in store, he said, though such a recovery would be a "cyclical bull market within a secular bear market."

"From a market standpoint, I think the bear market could happen faster than 2008/2009," he said. "You could have a peak-to-trough decline of as much as 80% in the stock market and have it all happen within three or four months."

He continued: "You've got to come out of an awfully big trough in the next cycle. So you can triple your money out of that...There's plenty of opportunity in the next cycle, but it's going to be in the context of a secular bear market."