2020-12-29 18:34:52+00:00
 Bitcoin has risen in price by nearly 300 per cent in 2020, outperforming the combined gains of gold and the Dow Jones stock market by a factor of 10.

Recent gains have propelled the cryptocurrency to new record highs of close to $30,000 (£22,000), having traded below $5,000 as recently as March.

Bitcoin’s performance have led some analysts to speculate that we are in the midst of the third great price rally in its 11-year history, as investors increasingly view it as a form of “digital gold” rather than a speculative investment or cash alternative.

How bitcoin performed compared to gold, oil and Dow Jones

Since peaking in late 2017 at around $20,000, bitcoin spent the best part of two years in steady freefall before its resurgence in March this year.

Its bounce back coincided with the enforcement of lockdowns around the world, as the full extent of the Covid-19 pandemic began to be realised. With economies stalling, funds flooded out of stock markets and into gold and cryptocurrency.

View more

The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which tracks the performance of 30 large companies listed on US stock exchanges, has since recovered and hit record highs on 29 December following an end-of-year rally spurred on by the signing of a $900 billion Covid relief package.

The stimulus package means the Dow is now up by 6.8 per cent since the start of the year, while oil is yet to recover from a major crash in April and is down by more than 20 per cent since January.

INDY/ LIFE Newsletter Be inspired with the latest lifestyle trends every week Please enter your email address Please enter a valid email address Please enter a valid email address SIGN UP Thanks for signing up to the INDY/LIFE newsletter {{#verifyErrors}} {{message}} {{/verifyErrors}} {{^verifyErrors}} {{message}} {{/verifyErrors}} The Independent would like to keep you informed about offers, events and updates by email, please tick the box if you would like to be contacted

Read our full mailing list consent terms here INDY/ LIFE Newsletter Be inspired with the latest lifestyle trends every week The Independent would like to keep you informed about offers, events and updates by email, please tick the box if you would like to be contacted

Read our full mailing list consent terms here

What caused the huge price surge?

Bitcoin was born out of the 2008 Financial Crisis as an innovative form of “peer-to-peer electronic cash” that was no longer reliant on governments or financial institutions to operate. It has another economic crisis – the worst since the Second World War – for its role as a store of financial value to be properly realised.

Mainstream adoption remains a long way off but investors increasingly refer to the notoriously volatile cryptocurrency as a safe-haven asset, with some analysts going as far as to call it “digital gold”.

The geopolitical uncertainty brought about by the coronavirus pandemic, which saw stock markets crash around the world, would typically see investors look towards stable assets like cash or gold.

While gold’s upward trajectory since March would attest to this, bitcoin’s bull-run has largely been the result of massive institutional investment moving into cryptocurrency.

Part of the reason for this is bitcoin’s finite supply – only 21 million units will ever exist – meaning it is not susceptible to artificial inflation techniques like quantitative easing.

Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures Show all 10 1 /10 Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures Satoshi Nakamoto creates the first bitcoin block in 2009 On 3 January, 2009, the genesis block of bitcoin appeared. It came less than a year after the pseudonymous creator Satoshi Nakamoto detailed the cryptocurrency in a paper titled 'Bitcoin: A peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System' Reuters Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures Bitcoin is used as a currency for the first time On 22 May, 2010, the first ever real-world bitcoin transaction took place. Lazlo Hanyecz bought two pizzas for 10,000 bitcoins – the equivalent of $90 million at today's prices Lazlo Hanyecz Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures Silk Road opens for business Bitcoin soon gained notoriety for its use on the dark web. The Silk Road marketplace, established in 2011, was the first of hundreds of sites to offer illegal drugs and services in exchange for bitcoin Screenshot Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures The first bitcoin ATM appears On 29 October, 2013, the first ever bitcoin ATM was installed in a coffee shop in Vancouver, Canada. The machine allowed people to exchange bitcoins for cash Reuters Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures The fall of MtGox The world's biggest bitcoin exchange, MtGox, filed for bankruptcy in February 2014 after losing almost 750,000 of its customers bitcoins. At the time, this was around 7 per cent of all bitcoins and the market inevitably crashed Getty Images Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures Would the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up In 2015, Australian police raided the home of Craig Wright after the entrepreneur claimed he was Satoshi Nakamoto. He later rescinded the claim Getty Images Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures Bitcoin's big split On 1 August, 2017, an unresolvable dispute within the bitcoin community saw the network split. The fork of bitcoin's underlying blockchain technology spawned a new cryptocurrency: Bitcoin cash Reuters Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures Bitcoin's price sky rockets Towards the end of 2017, the price of bitcoin surged to almost $20,000. This represented a 1,300 per cent increase from its price at the start of the year Reuters Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures What goes up... Bitcoin price crashes spectacularly, losing half of its value in a matter of days Getty Images Bitcoin's volatile history in pictures Bitcoin plunges The cryptocurrency eventually bottoms out below $4,000 in 2019 before slowly rebuilding momentum to outperform more traditional assets Getty Images

Joining institutional investors have been other major players entering the market and buying up the limited number of bitcoins in circulation. Among them is PayPal, which announced in October that it would open up cryptocurrencies to its roughly 350 million users worldwide in early 2021.

“Demand continues to outstrip supply and institutional investors continue to seek exposure to bitcoin hedge against inflation, both of which have helped to keep the price above $20,000,” Simon Peters, an analyst at the online investment platform eToro, told The Independent.

“Investors are recognising that, despite the rapid price rise grabbing headlines recently, bitcoin’s real potential remains as a long-term investment to be held for months if not years.”

Will bitcoin continue to rise in 2021?

Looking at past trends, some market analysts are hopeful it will continue to see massive growth before potentially crashing back down.

A leaked report from senior Wall Street analyst Tom Fitzpatrick in November predicted that bitcoin could hit $318,000 in 2021, followed by a “painful correction”.

The Citibank report, titled ‘Bitcoin: 21st Century Gold’, stated: “Improbable though that seems it would only be a low to high rally of 102 times (the weakest rally so far in percentage terms) at a point where the arguments in favour of bitcoin could well be at their most persuasive ever.”

View more

Others believe that economic and geopolitical stability caused by the global roll-out of Covid-19 vaccination may see a shift away from cryptocurrency investment and back towards traditional markets.

The incoming Biden administration on 20 January could also bring with it a number of regulatory challenges that could restrict bitcoin’s growth in the short-term.

“While many expect the bitcoin rally to continue in 2021, I’m more concerned with what the Biden administration could mean for crypto,” Jesse Cohen, a senior analyst at Investing.com, told The Independent.

“Incoming Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen has previously warned investors about bitcoin during her time as Fed Chair, calling it a highly speculative asset and not a stable store of value.