Editor's Note: Get caught up in minutes with our speedy summary of today's must-read news stories and expert opinions that moved the precious metals and financial markets. Sign up here!

(Kitco News) - The gold market has pushed solidly through $1,900 and broken through critical resistance around its 2011 all-time highs, and according to one German bank, there is room for prices to go higher through the end of the year.

The precious metal is seeing renewed buying momentum after hope was reignited that U.S. politicians could make a deal on a comprehensive stimulus package to support the fragile economy. The improved outlook comes after President Donald Trump, in a tweet Tuesday, said that he was ending stimulus talks until after the Nov. 3 general election.

Heading into the weekend, the gold market has regained all of its losses since the start of the week and is currently trading at its highest level in two weeks. December gold futures last traded at $1,934.10 an ounce, up 2% on the day.

In a telephone interview with Kitco News, Daniel Briesemann, precious metals analyst at Commerzbank, said that because there is so much volatility in the market it is difficult to say if this is the start of a new rally in gold; however, he added that he remains bullish on the yellow through the rest of the year.

“We have always said that gold below $2,000 is a buying opportunity,” he said. “There is so much money in financial markets, and more will come, so we think gold will be well supported through the rest of the year.”

In a note to clients Friday, Briesemann said although President Trump appears to have made a “complete U-turn,” it is unlikely that an agreement will come before the election.

However, he added that the gold market doesn’t need to see a complete stimulus package to push higher.

“We do expect a stimulus package will come; it’s just a matter of when,” Briesemann said in his comments to Kitco News. “These back and forth talks on stimulus creates a lot of uncertainty in financial markets and investors don’t like uncertainty and this environment will be positive for gold in the short-term.”

Along with election and economic uncertainty, Briesemann said that he is also watching the U.S. dollar. Gold’s rally Friday comes as the U.S. dollar falls to its lowest level in nearly two weeks. The U.S. dollar index last traded at 93.17 points.