2020-12-10 12:15:00
 Gold ETFs have added a shimmer to investor portfolios this year, but can this trend continue in 2021?

Data from the World Gold Council has indicated Gold ETFs are setting the price for physical gold as investor demand outpaces jewelry demand worldwide. Through the end of October, jewelry demand was 0.9 times ETF demand. In 2019, by comparison, jewelry demand was 4 times ETF demand.

Investors typically pivot to gold when they are uncertain about the economy or markets in general. This trend held true in 2020, particularly in the first half when markets plummeted.

‘ETF demand has been one of the bright spots for the year, in terms of how the gold story has played out,’ said Nick Colas, co-founder of DataTrek Research.

In a recent note, DataTrek suggested ETF demand could set the price for gold well into next year. With pandemic lockdowns limiting the jewelry market, the price of gold is effectively a function of investor interest.

Markets seem to have caught on to that reality after a brief selloff in November that blew out a lot of speculative positions in the commodity. Gold futures jumped 2.3% this week, and gold ETFs rebounded off their November lows.

Despite being down last month, VanEck Merk Gold Trust (OUNZ) has had a solid run this year, and is up 18.54% year to date. Similarly, SPDR Gold Shares (GLD) wobbled in November but is still up 15.31% year to date. Both ETFs trade physical gold.

What to watch

As investors look to 2021, the outlook for gold ETFs is positive, with some caveats. In a recent note, Citi lowered its gold price forecast for 2021, citing the possible rebound in physical gold demand from consumers. According to Citi’s expectations, prices will move above $2,000 in the next three to six months but could then normalize.

DataTrek also said the second half of the year will be the point to watch. If demand for gold jewelry in China and India rebounds in the second half of the year, ETFs might revert to pre-pandemic levels. But that is a big ‘if’.

Virus rates would have to drop and travel would have to resume, while the logistics of getting a vaccine to more than a billion people has raised doubts. If that takes longer than anticipated, ETFs could remain the dominant force in the gold market.

Other macro factors, including a weakened dollar, low yields, and the likelihood of continued market volatility are tailwinds for gold ETFs.

DataTrek’s Colas said the ideal allocation to gold is between 1% and 5%, and investors have to decide where they fall within that range.

‘A lot of it depends on how you see the global commodity cycle,’ Colas said. ‘If you think we’re in for a massive recovery in 2021, which equity markets absolutely do, then you can play the demand with a mid-range allocation. If you’re maxed out worried about devaluation of the dollar, then you might be at the 5% allocation. If you think everything is already baked in and we just muddle through then you’re probably at 1%.’