Editor's Note: Get caught up in minutes with our speedy summary of today's must-read news stories and expert opinions that moved the precious metals and financial markets. Sign up here!

(Kitco News) - Growing positive investor sentiment and a strong U.S. dollar are proving to be formidable headwinds against gold as the market has lost a critical support level.

Since coming off the all-time highs above $2,000 in August, the $1,850 level has been an important line in the sand for many analysts. That barrier broke fairly easily Monday following better than expected economic news and a possible third vaccine to combat the COVID-19 virus that has completely devastated the global economy.

December gold futures last traded at $1,830 an ounce, down more than 2% on the day. Meanwhile, the U.S. dollar index last traded at 92.6 points up 0.22% on the day.

With a critical support level now broken, analysts say there is room to fall further as the next major level to watch will be the 200-day moving average, which comes in around $1,808 an ounce. The target is a further 1% decline from current prices.

Ole Hansen, head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank, noted that the break through $1,850 comes in relatively light volume as markets have started a shorted trading week and are closed Thursday for the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday.

In a recent interview with Kitco News, Hansen said that while risks are growing in the gold market on the back of improving risk sentiment, the market’s long-term fundamentals haven’t disappeared.

He added that he sees any drop below $1,850 an ounce as a buying opportunity.

“The gold theme hasn’t gone away; it has just been put on pause as markets and investors search for some normalcy in the global economy,” he said. “The broad commodity rally we have seen recently is pointing to inflation and that will ultimately be good for gold.”

In a note to clients, David Madden, senior market strategist at CMC Markets, said that he could see gold prices pushing to $1,800 an ounce on further strength in the U.S. dollar.

Not only is the gold market reeling after better than expected economic data and vaccine news, but Bob Haberkorn, senior market broker at RJO Futures, said that the market is waiting to hear news about further stimulus measures.

“I think the 200-day moving average could come into play pretty quickly as the market waits for some sort of stimulus news. I also think that we could see gold prices fall to $1,785 before buying comes into the market,” he said.

Haberkorn added that gold could be a buy at current levels or below $1,800 an ounce as he expects President-elect Joe Biden announces new stimulus plans before the end of the year.

Although U.S. economic data has been fairly optimistic lately, Kaberkorn noted that there is still a lot of uncertainty in the next few months as COVID-19 infections and deaths continue to rise.

“The virus continues to spread, so we are probably going to see more lockdowns this winter. The general public probably won’t see a vaccine until late spring, so I think we are going to see some sort of stimulus plan announced,” he said. “It’s hard to see more stimulus after positive economic data, but I think that is the trade right now.”