Commodity prices witnessed range bound trading in previous session over dollar recovery and hopes over US stimulus package. Commodity prices fluctuated on stronger dollar which kept prices under check while signs over early announcement of US aid package before the US Presidential election supported crude oil and metals. Here is a look at how different commodities are behaving in today’s market.Bullion prices maintained a firm trading range on Monday with COMEX spot gold prices trading above $1,900 per ounce while spot silver prices at COMEX were near $24.20 in the morning. Gold prices fluctuated in the range of $1,890-$1,910 while silver prices were revolving around $24 per ounce on mixed global cues. Rising hopes over US stimulus and fear of second wave of virus infections in Europe has kept dollar index firm which dampened safe haven demand for precious metals. However, bullion prices have held grounds and kept the downside limited on slower US economic recovery and concerns of fresh lockdown measures in UK and Europe.Buy on dips around Rs 50,500 is advisable for the day. MCX Gold December resistance is at Rs 50,800 per 10 grams with support at Rs 50,300 per 10 grams. MCX Silver December support lies at Rs 59,000 per kg, resistance at Rs 62,500 per kg.Crude oil prices traded steady with benchmark WTI crude oil prices trading marginally down to $41 in Monday morning trade. Crude oil prices have held a steady trading range at $37-$42 per barrel since the last few months over mixed fundamentals. The US CFTC data showed that money managers have decreased their net long positions to a five-week low by 9,062 lots in the last week. Oil and gas rigs operating in the Gulf of Mexico were up by 13 to 282 while oil rigs rose by 12 to 205 in the last week. Oil prices have capped the upside limited on slower demand recovery amid COVID-19 pandemic effects and oversupply scenario. Renewed hopes over US stimulus may support crude oil prices to trade firm, underpinning weak China GDP data for the day.We recommend buy on dips around Rs 2,990 in MCX Crude Oil November for the day with support at Rs 2,950 per barrel with resistance at Rs 3,060 per barrel.Base metals complex continued to trade with mixed signals. Most of the metals were trading firm in the morning on Monday. Base metals are getting support from better-than-expected China industrial production data while disappointing GDP figures has kept the upside limited. China's economy grew by 4.9 per cent in the third quarter against a forecast of 5.2 per cent. Zinc and lead prices may get support from higher demand prospects while Nickel prices may trade firm on strong demand from steel sector.We expect Copper prices to trade sideways to up. MCX Copper October support lies at Rs 524 and resistance at Rs 532. MCX Zinc October prices may keep sideways to up trading with support at Rs 193, resistance at Rs 198.(Tapan Patel is Senior Analyst (Commodities) at HDFC Securities. Views are his own)