Overall the mood is that there is money, that money will be printed and that this money will flow into stocks, says, Gloom, author,What I have heard and what I have read is that Biden will win. He is very close to a victory. Many observers think there was a lot of froth due to mailing of votes. If Biden wins, what will be assured is that the stimulus package will probably also bail out some cities that are on the verge of bankruptcy like Chicago, Los Angeles and San Francisco. A Biden win is moderately more positive for the market but what is relevant for the market is that the Fed does not move and continues to print money. And that was what they announced. The market may have become a little bit oversold as of a week ago and has been rallying now and very soon it will be overbought but overall the mood is still that there is money, that money will be printed and that this money will flow into stocks.The Republicans would say that Democrats have always promised something and never done anything and so I do not think that this breakup will be a devastating kind of an event. But I would just like to remind you that Standard Oil of New Jersey was broken up into different parts. The individual parts together were worse than the original company. AT&T was broken up into different telephone companies and some of the subsidiaries that came out of the breakup were worse than the original company. So if they break up a company like Amazon or Google or Facebook , maybe the different parts will turn out to be worse than the existing company.When you look at it who benefits the most from low interest rates or negative interest rates, you see that it is the politicians who benefit the most because governments under zero interest rates or negative interest rates can borrow as much money as they like with no cost. So the government as a percent of the economy can become bigger and bigger and their desire is to control the population. I think the low interest rate will stay. They started printing money long before the Covid-19 crisis erupted..Silver and gold will move more or less in the same direction now. If we look at relative value among the precious metals, silver is more attractive than gold but I have most of my holdings in physical gold and not in silver because my safe deposit boxes are not big enough for silver. So, I have to concentrate on gold and platinum. But as a trade, silver looks very attractive.