OUTSIDE MARKET DEVELOPMENTS: Global equity markets were higher overnight with gains ranging from 0.5% to as high as 4.4% in the Hang Seng. The New Zealand business confidence survey for November slightly worse than expected, there was a slight uptick in a Japanese bank services PMI reading for October, and Australian imports contracted, which was offset by a gain in exports for the month of September. A Swiss consumer climate reading for the fourth quarter came in with a bigger contraction than the previous month, German factory orders and UK construction PMI both came in softer than expected. However, the news overnight was the bank of England’s decision to increase its asset purchase facility by 150 billion pounds. The North American session will start out with the October Challenger job cuts survey, followed by a weekly reading on US initial jobless claims that is expected to have a modest downtick from the previous 751,000 reading. Ongoing jobless claims are forecast to have a moderate decline from 7.756 million last week. Third quarter readings for non-farm productivity and unit labor costs are expected to be down from their previous readings. Today’s FOMC meeting is not expected to result in any major changes to US rates or policy. Earnings announcements include Bristol-Myers Squibb, Zoetis, Duke Energy, Dominion Energy, Becton Dickinson and General Motors before the Wall Street opening and Square, Booking Holdings and Uber Technologies after the close.

GOLD / SILVER

At least in the early action today, the bull camp has firm control over gold and silver in a several ways. First, news of a 150 billion-pound boost in the Bank of England bond-buying facility indicates some central banks are now acting to cushion their economies against the infection wave that is sparking a return to restricted activity. Second, the dollar has fallen sharply and appears to be poised to extend through the end of the week. It is also possible that less uncertainty from the election is tempering fears of slowing from the US political transition. US politics have turned definitively bullish for gold and silver with the Senate Majority Leader yesterday indicating he wanted a stimulus package before the end of the year, something that was thought to be a dead issue last week. However, we doubt the US Fed will act in its meeting today, as they have been conservative with ammunition as though they have been relying on fiscal stimulus. Another positive force for gold prices today was seen from firming spot demand in India, with some analysts expecting that trend to continue due to festivals. The markets also saw signs of improved spot demand for silver in India, which is a force that has been absent for several quarters. At least in the near term, precious metals are likely to remain linked with equities, but there could be a temporary divergence between gold/silver and equities in the wake of this morning's US jobs data. Forced to decide, we would err to the side of expecting gold and silver to see modest, temporary corrective action if claims and other private reports show a softer US economy. Unfortunately for the bull camp, gold ETF holdings continue to decline, but consistent strength in futures ahead and a more consistent upbeat economic outlook could bring those investors back. Traders should keep in mind that year to date purchases of gold by ETFs are still 27.8 million ounces, with net silver ETF purchases year to date at 277 million ounces.

PGM

Clearly the palladium market has managed to traverse the election with an impressive trend of higher highs and higher lows. Certainly, the market is cheered by the passing of a major headwind to global growth and threat to global commodity demand. It does appear that last week's aggressive washout went a long way toward balancing the overbought technical condition, as the market saw its highest trading volume since mid-March on that 2-day break. The most recent COT positioning report (as of last Tuesday) showed a spec and fund net long of only 3,960 contracts, and at the low last week prices had forged a decline of $170. This could mean that $2,250 is now credible support. Going forward, with favorable global data flows extending and any sign of a plateau in infections, a return to $2,500 would not be surprising. Clearly, the platinum market diverged with the palladium market yesterday in the wake of the slight moderation in US economic anxiety, but consistent gains in equities ahead should improve platinum demand views further and help lift prices. Even the supply side favors the bull camp in platinum, with news overnight that Anglo-American was forced to take a processing unit offline and warning of a downward adjustment to production guidance for the year. However, until the threat of infections is truncated or positive vaccine news is seen, we suspect January platinum will be restrained by consolidation high resistance starting at $902.

MARKET IDEAS: With the passing of a major physical commodity demand destruction threat from the US election, we expect gold and silver to begin to respect chart support levels and possibly reverse the August through early November downtrend patterns. December gold has already reversed the downtrend with a consistent trade above a downtrend resistance line this week, which is located at $1,904.60 today. As indicated earlier this week, we suspected the dollar to drift lower and with the BOE announcing additional QE that gives the gold and silver bull camps a surprising bullish addition to their case. Traders should now return their focus to US scheduled data for fundamental direction today, but we also suggest that traders begin monitoring news flow on the status of vaccine trial results, as those results are overdue versus drug company CEO statements two weeks ago. Directly ahead, further gains in equities, weakness in the dollar, and "relief" from the election should launch gold back toward the $2000 level and silver back toward the $26.50 level.

COPPER