The current cycle suggests a Recovery phase is nearly complete and we should expect an Appreciation phase to begin within 2 years (or less). Historically, the Appreciation phase prompts a 200% to 300%+ rally in Gold prices – this time the rally may be even greater. We are just waiting for confirmation that the upward cycle in Stocks to Commodities and S&P Price to Earnings ratios have peaked and begin to move lower. That cycle confirmation will suggest the Recovery phase in Gold has ended and the Appreciation phase has begun. Additionally, once Gold rallies above $2,200 (breaking recent highs), this could also be considered a confirmation of the new Appreciation Phase in Gold.

This article illustrates that longer-term economic cycles play a very big role in how we, as technical traders, attempt to identify opportunities and trends. The theory that Technical Analysis is the study of indicators and price theory fails to address the fact that many aspects of cycles, trends, appreciation/depreciation, theory, indicators, and other factors go into our analysis. We use Technical analysis as a final confirmation tool and as a primary source for our research, but we rely on cycles, historical data, nuanced patterns and so much more to try to help traders find and execute better trades.

Traders should be ready for wild volatility over the next 2~3+ years and a very strong potential that commodity prices (particularly Gold and Silver) will transition into the Appreciation Phase fairly soon. I have been following Gold and Silver for years now and have many of the Gold industry giants following my precious metals research.

Isn’t it time you learned how I can help you better understand technical analysis as well as find and execute better trades? If you look back at past research, you will see that my incredible team and our proprietary technical analysis tools have shown you what to expect from the markets in the future. Do you want to learn how to profit from these expected moves? If so, sign up for my Active ETF Swing Trade Signals today!

If you have a buy-and-hold or retirement account and are looking for long-term technical signals for when to buy and sell equities, bonds, precious metals, or sit in cash then be sure to subscribe to my Passive Long-Term ETF Investing Signals to stay ahead of the market and protect your wealth!

For a look at all of today’s economic events, check out our economic calendar.

Chris Vermeulen

Chief Market Strategist

Technical Traders Ltd.